                  PARADOX 4.5: ANSWERS TO COMMON QUESTIONS
                  ----------------------------------------

This file provides answers to questions commonly asked about Paradox 4.5.
All information in this file supersedes information in the Paradox
documentation.


TABLE OF CONTENTS
-----------------

1. Contacting Borland
2. Highlighting the Current Field or Record
3. Running Paradox under Windows
4. Running Paradox under OS/2
5. Running Paradox under DESQview
6. Specific Compatibility Problems
7. Tips on the Application Workshop


1. CONTACTING BORLAND
---------------------

Q. What are all the ways that I can communicate with Borland and receive
   information from Borland?

A. See the second section of the README.


2. HIGHLIGHTING THE CURRENT FIELD OR RECORD
-------------------------------------------

Q. Is there a way to highlight the current record or field in a table?

A. Use the PAL command SETHIGHLIGHT:

   1)  Choose Alt-F10|Miniscript

   2)  To activate record highlighting for the current image, type the
       following miniscript and press Enter:

       SETHIGHLIGHT CURRENT RECORD <ColorAttribute>

       <ColorAttribute> is one of the color attributes listed in Appendix F
       of the PAL Reference, such as (15 + 64).

   3)  To activate field highlighting for the current image, type the
       following miniscript and press Enter:

       SETHIGHLIGHT CURRENT FIELD <ColorAttribute>

   4)  To activate record highlighting for an image other than the current
       image, replace the CURRENT keyword in the previous miniscripts with
       the name of the table to affect.

   5)  Press Esc to close the Miniscript window.

   6)  To save the record highlighting for a table, use {IMAGE} {KEEPSET}.

   To deactivate highlighting, replace the <ColorAttribute> argument in
   the previous miniscripts with the keyword OFF. For more information on
   SETHIGHLIGHT, see Chapter 2 of the Paradox 4.5 Upgrade Guide.


3. RUNNING PARADOX UNDER WINDOWS
--------------------------------

Q. How do I run Paradox under Microsoft Windows?

A. Install Paradox as described in Chapter 23 of the Paradox "User's
   Guide." Start Paradox from the Program Manager in Windows by using the
   provided icon, rather than shelling out to DOS and starting Paradox from
   the DOS command line. Starting Paradox from Windows with the icon
   executes the PIF file and customizes the environment for Windows.

   The PIF file limits the extended memory that Paradox uses to 3096K. If
   you do not run other applications under Windows at the same time as
   Paradox, you can use the -extk command-line option to let Paradox use
   all available extended memory.


4. RUNNING PARADOX UNDER OS/2
-----------------------------

Q. How do I run Paradox 4.5 under OS/2?

A. Paradox requires OS/2 version 2.0 or greater. Use the following
   procedure to install and run Paradox under OS/2, version 2.0.

   1)  Install Paradox.

       a. Insert Disk 1 in drive A or B.

       b. Double-click on the OS/2 System Icon that appears.

       c. Double-click on Drives.

       d. Double-click on the disk drive object for the installed drive.

       e. Double-click on the INSTALL.EXE object.

       f. Follow the instructions that appear onscreen.

   2)  Create DOS objects for Paradox.

       a. From the OS/2 system prompt, change to the Paradox directory.
          For example, type

          CD \PDOX45

       b. From the OS/2 system prompt, enter the command

          PDOXOS2

       c. When prompted, enter the path of the Paradox system files. For
          example, type

          \PDOX45

          The CMD file will create a desktop folder containing PdoxDOS, 
          Tutility and Nupdate.

   3)  Start Paradox.

       a. Double-click the new program object.

Q. How do I access shared tables under OS/2 on a network drive?

A. Run Nupdate (in your Paradox system directory) and set Network Type
   to Other.


5. RUNNING PARADOX UNDER DESQVIEW
---------------------------------

Q. How do I run Paradox under DESQview?

A. Use the following procedure to run Paradox under DESQview:

   1)  Limit the amount of memory that Paradox uses by inserting the
       following command in the batch file that loads DESQview:

       set DPMIMEM=MAXMEM 3000

       Clear this setting when you leave DESQview by inserting the
       following line after the line that calls DESQview:

       set DPMIMEM=

   2)  Start Paradox with the -emk 0 parameter in DESQview. In the
       Parameters text box of the Change a Program dialog box, type

       -emk 0

   3)  Set the memory size for Paradox under DESQview to 400K. In the
       Memory Size text box of the Change a Program dialog box, type

       400K


6. SPECIFIC COMPATIBILITY PROBLEMS
----------------------------------

Q. Why do I see the DOS error message "Unexpected Condition: Memory corrupt
   (TSR loaded?)" when I'm running Paradox without a TSR loaded?

A. If you're running Paradox under extremely tight memory conditions (low
   real memory) and you run a PAL script that shells out to DOS and runs
   COMMAND.COM (for example, your script contains a line with a DOS
   command, such as "COPY file1.txt file2.txt"), you might get this DOS
   error message when DOS tries to return to Paradox. This usually happens
   when you have a SQL Link driver loaded. However, low real memory can
   cause this in non-SQL cases because DOS 5.0 does not remove COMMAND.COM
   from low memory when returning to Paradox.

   To prevent this situation and error message, start Paradox with the
   command-line option -notsr. The -notsr option detects and corrects the
   type of memory corruption caused by DOS 5.0 under low real memory and
   SQL Link driver circumstances.

   CAUTION: Never load a TSR when you shell out to DOS from
   Paradox, whether or not you've started Paradox with -notsr. If you
   accidentally load a TSR when you shell out to DOS from Paradox after
   starting Paradox with -notsr, this command-line option prevents Paradox
   from checking memory when you shell back in to Paradox. You won't
   necessarily return to Paradox cleanly, and you will not receive
   a warning message from DOS.


Q. Can I use the AST REX.SYS driver with Paradox?

A. The AST REX.SYS driver, which converts EEMS expanded memory back to
   extended memory, is not compatible with Paradox. To obtain extended
   memory with an EEMS board, disallow the REMM.SYS expanded memory driver
   from using some or all of the memory on the board. (In some cases, you
   will have to set switches on the board to accomplish this.)


Q. How should I configure PCKwik for use with Paradox?

A. If you use PCKwik, do not supply the /A+ expanded memory option with
   the /L lend option. If memory lending is desired, use /EM+ to force
   use of extended memory.


Q. Can I use an AST machine with shadow RAM to run Paradox?

A. Some AST machines with shadow RAM have shown compatibility problems with
   Paradox. If you experience load problems on one of these machines,
   either disable the shadow RAM, or provide less than the total amount of
   extended memory to Paradox's DPMI server. To do so, set an environment
   variable that specifies the maximum amount of memory that the DPMI
   server will use. This variable can be entered directly at the DOS
   prompt, or inserted as a line in your AUTOEXEC.BAT file, using the
   syntax:

   set DPMIMEM=MAXMEM nnnn

   where nnnn is the amount of extended memory (in kilobytes) that will be
   allocated to the Paradox DPMI server.

   The amount of memory you actually provide is determined by the total
   extended memory minus the amount of memory used for Shadow RAM. For
   example, on a machine with 4MB of RAM, 640K is typically reserved for
   real memory, leaving 3456K (4096K-640K) extended memory; 128K more
   reserved for Shadow RAM leaves 3328K (3456K-128K) usable extended
   memory. In this case, set DPMIMEM as follows:

   set DPMIMEM=MAXMEM 3328


Q. Can I run Paradox on a machine with more than 16MB of memory?

A. If your machine has more than 16MB of extended memory, use the following
   command to set DPMI before you start Paradox:

   set DPMIMEM=MAXMEM 16000

   Then start Paradox with the -extk 16000 command-line option.


Q. Why do I receive erroneous DOS error messages?

A. If you load SHARE for any reason and you access tables regularly with
   many associated objects, you might get false error messages from DOS
   when SHARE runs out of environment space. Such messages include "File
   not found" when you know the file is present and "Access denied" for a
   script when you go into debug mode. If you get these or other DOS
   messages which you suspect are erroneous and the result of SHARE running
   out of environment space, increase the size of the environment used by
   SHARE. See your DOS documentation for details.

   If increasing the size of the environment for SHARE doesn't take care of
   erroneous DOS messages, you can start Paradox with the -handles
   command-line option as follows:

   paradox -handles n

   where n is greater than or equal to 20, and less than or equal to 64.
   If you specify a number for n that is out of range, Paradox leaves the
   number of handles it manages at the default. Use -handles as a
   last resort, after increasing the environment space used by SHARE.
   Starting Paradox with less than 64 handles has a significant negative
   impact on performance.


Q. How should I start Paradox with Qualitas' 386MAX?

A. To make Paradox work properly with version 6 of Qualitas' 386MAX, start
   Paradox with the -notsr command-line option.


Q. Why do I have problems when I choose Monochrome from the System|Video
   menu?

A. When you choose monochrome from the video menu, your system will hang
   if QEMM, 386MAX, or another memory manager is using the memory reserved
   for a monochrome adapter. In addition, the Monochrome selection is
   incompatible with some EGA adapter cards.


Q. Why is the video mode of my Paradise VGA 1024 adapter not restored
   after I exit Paradox?

A. If you exit Paradox while in high resolution mode, your prior video mode
   is not restored. Start Paradox with the -bios command-line option to
   prevent this situation.


Q. Why can't I start Paradox with VSHIELD in some situations?

A. If you load VSHIELD with the /SWAP parameter, Paradox won't run. This
   problem is corrected in VSHIELD versions 94 and above.


Q. Why can't I print line drawing and other special characters on my
   PostScript printer?

A. Line drawing characters are part of the IBM character set, and they are
   not supported by PostScript printers. Characters that are commonly used
   to represent text in foreign languages are the only special characters
   that Paradox can print on a PostScript printer.


Q. Why are mailing labels that I created in Paradox 3.5 sometimes truncated
   when I print them in Paradox 4.5?

A. In Paradox 3.5, if a wordwrap field causes the height of the report's
   form band to be exceeded, Paradox prints all the text by allowing the
   wordwrap to change the height of your label. Paradox 4.5 will not let
   wordwrap change the height of your label; instead, the wordwrap text
   will be truncated. If wordwrap text is truncated when you print mailing
   labels, change the height of the form band in your mailing label report.


7. TIPS ON THE APPLICATION WORKSHOP
-----------------------------------

This section contains tips on using the Application Workshop.

Custom Procedures in Edit Session Objects
-----------------------------------------
- Upon returning from a procedure, leave the Paradox editing mode
  (CoEdit, DataEntry, or Edit) as it was when the procedure began.
  For example, if you simulate pressing F2 Do_It! to go to Main
  mode, your procedure should also switch back to the editing mode
  the session was in originally.

- If you move to a different table, or if you change IMAGERIGHTS for a
  table, call PPP_Edit_MovedTable() to restore the table settings. This
  will ensure that IMAGERIGHTS is properly set and that the Edit Session
  flags are restored.

  NOTE: If View and Edit or View and Update modes were set for the
  table, the table will be in View mode when the Edit Session resumes.

- If you use the CLEARPULLDOWN or SHOWPULLDOWN command, call
  PPP_ESR_ArriveWindow_N() before returning from your procedure.
  PPP_ESR_ArriveWindow_N() returns 1 if the cursor is on a system window;
  otherwise, it returns 0 and restores the Edit Session menu. If you do
  not call this procedure, the Edit Session menu is not restored until you
  arrive on a new window.

- From a master form with embedded forms, or from any form when more than
  one table is on the workspace, do not switch to a different form for the
  same table. Even if you then return to the original form, the window
  handle will be lost and movement between tables disabled for the
  remainder of the Edit Session. You can, however, switch to table view
  and back.

- When returning from a custom procedure in an Edit Session, set global
  echo to NORMAL; otherwise, unexpected screen displays will occur in
  subsequent actions.

Attaching Your Own Code to an Action
------------------------------------
- Always leave your procedure with echo set to OFF when returning to the
  Application Workshop, EXCEPT with an Edit Session, in which case set
  echo to NORMAL.

- If your code is attached to an object, always leave the workspace as you
  found it.

- If your code is an object (ExecProc, Execute, or Script), you can do what
  you want with the workspace, but it must be left in Main mode at
  completion. We suggest a RESET before returning to the Application
  Workshop. Application Workshop objects generally avoid the RESET command
  so your locks aren't cleared between actions.




